.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2016 SURFnet bv
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of SURFnet bv nor the names of its contributors 
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
.\"    software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\" GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
.\" IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH DANISH 1 "January 2016" "Roland van Rijswijk-Deij" "Internet / DNS"
.SH NAME
danish \- generate TLSA or SMIMEA records and check X.509 certificate information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B danish -n 
.I hostname
.B -c 
.I certfile
.B [-H] [-e] [-t] [-q] [-M]
.B -u 
.I 0-3
.B -s
.I 0-1
.B -m
.I 1-2
.B [-r
.I reqfile
.B ] -p 
.I port
.B -P  
.I tcp
.B | 
.I udp

.B danish -n
.I hostname
.B -c
.I certfile
.B -E
.I emailAddress
.B [-e] [-t] [-q] [-M]
.B -u 
.I 0-3
.B -s
.I 0-1
.B -m
.I 1-2

.B danish -h

.B danish -v
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B danish
generates TLSA records compliant with
.I RFC 6698
or SMIMEA records compliant with
.I draft-ietf-dane-smime-09
from X.509 certificates. In addition to generating TLSA or SMIMEA records
.B danish
can also perform a number of checks on certificates and outputs the
status of these checks, both as text as well as a return value that can
be checked from scripts and other programs.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n hostname"
Generate a TLSA record for
.I hostname
.IP "-c certfile"
Read the X.509 certificate from
.I certfile
; certificates in both ASN.1 DER as well as in PEM encoding are supported.
.IP "[-e]"
Check if the certificate is valid or has expired; uses the current
system time.
.IP "[-M]"
Match the
.I hostname or mailAddress
specified with the
.B -n
or
.B -E
option against the subject and the subjectAltName of the certificate to
check if the certificate is valid for the specified
.I hostname
or
.I mailAddress
.IP "[-H]"
Generate a TLSA record for a hostname (default behaviour).
.IP "-r reqfile"
Matches the X.509 certificate against the certificate signing request
(CSR) read from
.I reqfile
; the check matches the subject and subjectAltName of the certificate
to the request and checks if the public key in the certificate matches
the public key in the request.
.IP "-p port"
Specifies the
.I port
to which the TLSA record that will be generated pertains
.IP "-P tcp | udp"
Specifies the protocol (TCP or UDP) to which the TLSA record that will
be generated pertains
.IP "-E mailAddress"
Generate an SMIMEA record for
.I mailAddress
; if usage 0 (CA constraint) or 2 (trust anchor) is specified, the actual e-mail address specified will be ignored and a wildcard record will be generated instead.
.IP "-u 0-3"
Specifies the TLSA record certificate usage (see RFC 6698, section 2.1.1);
valid uses are:
.RS
.P 
0 - CA certificate constraint; the TLSA record limits certificates
for
.I hostname
to those issued below the CA certificate referenced in the TLSA record.
.B Note:
do not combine this usage with the -m option since the hostname will
not match the subject or subjectAltName of the certificate.
.RE
.RS
.P
1 - End-entity certificate constraint with PKIX validation; clients MUST
check that the certificate they receive from
.I hostname
on
.I port
with the specified protocol (TCP or UDP) matches the certificate
specified in the TLSA record. In addition to this, the certificate
should validate against the PKIX certificate chain.
.RE
.RS
.P
2 - Trust anchor; the TLSA record specifies a trust anchor (usually an
internal CA) from which PKIX validation of the certificate for
.I hostname
on
.I port
should succeed.
.RE
.RS
.P
3 - Self-signed certificate; the TLSA record specifies a valid end-entity
certificate for
.I hostname
on
.I port
; clients MUST NOT perform PKIX validation on the certificate.
.RE
.IP "-s 0-1"
Specifies the TLSA record selector field (see RFC 6698, section 2.1.2);
valid selector values are:
.RS
.P
0 - Full certificate; the entire X.509 certificate a client sees for
.I hostname
on
.I port
must match the TLSA record.
.RE
.RS
.P
1 - subjectPublicKeyInfo; only the public key value encoded in the
.I subjectPublicKeyInfo
field of the certificate that a client sees for
.I hostname
on
.I port
must match the TLSA record.
.RE
.IP "-m 1-2"
Specifies the TLSA record matching type field (see RFC 6698, section
2.1.3); valid matching field values are:
.RS
.P
1 - SHA256 hash of the content selected using the
.I selector
.RE
.RS
.P
2 - SHA512 hash of the content selected using the
.I selector
.RE
.IP "-q"
Be quiet; suppresses any error messages output to
.B stdout
or
.B stderr
and only outputs the TLSA record.
.IP "-h"
Print a short help summary of the options supported by
.B danish
.IP "-v"
Output version information
.SH INTEGRATING WITH ZONE PUBLICATION TOOL CHAIN
For more information on how to integrate
.B danish
in your DNS zone publication tool chain, please consult the
.I README.md
file included in the distribution.
.SH AUTHOR
Roland van Rijswijk-Deij <roland.vanrijswijk@surfnet.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 SURFnet bv, all rights reserved.
.P
Subject to a 3-clause BSD license specified in the LICENSE file included
in the distribution.
